Joining me now is Secretary of State
Antony Blinken.
Mr. Secretary, thanks for joining us.
So the U.S.
stood alone at the U.N.
Security Council on Friday
to block the cease fire
and the administration
is sidestepping Congress
to rush more weapons to Israel.
You said this week
that there is, quote, a gap
between the intent
to protect Palestinian civilians
and the actual results
that we're seeing on the ground in Gaza.
Can you describe that gap?
What is Israel doing right now
that you think does not
demonstrate enough care or protection
of Palestinian civilians?
Jake, we think there needs to be
a premium put on protecting civilians
and making sure
that humanitarian assistance
can get to everyone who needs it.
And as I said,
I think the intent is there,
but the results are not always
manifesting themselves.
And we see that both
in terms of civilian protection
and humanitarian assistance,
we want to make sure that is
Israel continues
this this campaign, because, remember,
they are dealing with
a terrorist organization
that engaged
in the most vicious possible
brutality on October 7th
and has made clear
that it would do it again
and again and again
if given the opportunity.
So Israel needs to be able to deal
with this to protect itself,
to prevent October 7th
from happening again.
But as it does that, it's imperative
that civilians be protected.
And here,
the critical thing
is to make sure
that the military operations
are designed around civilian protection
and to focus on that
when it comes to humanitarian assistance
that we, as you know,
made the
argument many weeks ago
to get humanitarian assistance in.
It started to flow.
We got a doubled during
the humanitarian pause
for the hostage releases
that we helped to negotiate.
But now what's critical is this.
Even as Israel has taken
additional steps, for example,
to designate safe areas in the south
to focus on neighborhoods,
not entire cities,
in terms of evacuating them.
What we're not seeing sufficiently
is a couple of things.
One, making sure that
the humanitarian operators
who are there, starting
with the United Nations,
performing heroically,
that there are deconfliction
times, places and routes
so that the humanitarians can bring
the assistance is getting into Gaza
to the people who need it.
Similarly,
we need to see
the same kind of deconfliction time
pauses, designated routes, plural.
Not not not just one
and and clarity of communication
so that people know when it is safe
and where it is
safe to move to get out of harm's way
before they go back home.
These are the kinds of things
we're working on every single day, again,
to make sure that that gap between intent
and result is as narrow as possible.
The IDF told CNN,
I believe Alex Marquardt earlier today
that they estimate
they've killed about 7000 Hamas fighters.
When do you anticipate
this phase of Israel's
military campaign is going to end?
Obviously,
they can't kill every member of Hamas.
And even if they did, 150,000
new ones would show up the next day.
Are the Israelis telling you anything
about when this phase
is going to ramp up?
Because obviously the civilian death toll
is mounting. It's unimaginable.
Secretary Austin suggested
that Israel
might ultimately be facing
a strategic defeat
by chasing so many Palestinians
into the arms of Hamas.
Jake,
we have these discussions with Israel,
including about the duration,
as well as how it's prosecuting
this campaign against Hamas.
These are decisions for Israel to make,
but Hamas has decisions to make, too.
It could get out from hiding
behind civilians tomorrow.
It could put down its arms tomorrow.
It could surrender tomorrow.
And this would be over.
Right? Obviously.
But will the U.S.
continue to back Israel
the way it's backing Israel right now
if this continues for months and months
as opposed to days or weeks?
Again, Israel has to
make these decisions.
Of course, everyone wants to see this
campaign come to a close
as quickly as possible.
But any country faced
with what Israel is facing,
a terrorist organization that attacked it
in the most horrific way
possible on October 7th, and as I said,
has said
repeatedly that it would do it again.
And again and again.
It has to get to the point where it is
confident that that can't be repeated.
But you make another point
that's very important.
When the major
military operation is over,
this is not over
because we
have to have a durable, sustainable peace
and we have to make sure
that we're on the path to a durable
and sustainable peace.
From our perspective,
I think from the perspective of
many around the world,
that has to lead to a Palestinian state.
This is we're not going to have
durable peace.
We're not going to have durable security
for Israel
unless and until Palestinian
political aspirations are met.
And of course, what happens
the day after in Gaza itself,
once a military operations
major military operation is over,
that's also usually important and urgent
to make sure that governance, security,
reconstruction, all of that is in place
so that there's no vacuum.
The Committee to Protect Journalists
says at least 63
journalists and members of the news
media have been killed,
56 of them Palestinian, in this war,
presumably mostly,
if not entirely by IDF strikes.
Is that acceptable to you?
You've made of press freedom
a hallmark of your of your term.
How do you explain all these
deaths of journalists?
How do the Israelis explain it?
Jake, as I see
journalists, including
some of your colleagues,
but also from many other news
organizations,
putting their lives on the line to
just bring the news,
bring the facts, bring information
to the world.
I have
extraordinary admiration
for what they do,
for the courage that they show
and for the vital
importance of their mission.
And we want to make sure
that just as every civilian
is protected
to the greatest extent possible.
Of course, journalists are, too,
and they're when it comes to instances
where journalists have been killed,
we want to make sure that
that's investigated
and we understand what's happened.
And there's accountability.
Congress is scrambling
to reach a deal to pass
foreign aid for Ukraine and Israel.
Republicans are insisting
on more border funding
and new asylum restrictions
that that be added to the to the bill.
What would it mean for Ukraine and Israel
if Congress does not pass
any additional support
by the end of the year?
And why not agree
to tougher border protections,
which is an issue
of national security as well?
Well, Jake, the
the border
piece, as you know, is out of my
is out of my purview. But I can say this.
I know
on day one of this administration,
or at least day two,
the president put before Congress,
I think the first bill
on immigration reform.
Unfortunately, Congress
hasn't acted on that.
In this request for additional funds,
there are $6 billion to enhance border
security,
including having more people, more agents
on the border.
So I know that's very much
part of the discussion
and something
the president's fully prepared to
to engage on.
But in terms of what it would mean
for Ukraine,
what it would mean for Israel,
what it would mean for our efforts
to be competitive in the Indo-Pacific.
I think the only people
who would be happy
if this supplemental budget request
is not voted on
and approved by Congress
are sitting in Moscow,
sitting in Tehran, sitting in Beijing.
For Ukraine, this is absolutely vital.
They've made remarkable progress
over the last year in pushing back
Russian aggression,
taking back
more than 50% of the territory
that was seized since February of 2022.
But they're in a ferocious battle
now in the south, in the east.
We are running out of funding for them,
by the way.
90% of the assistance,
the security assistance that we provided,
Ukraine is actually invested
right here in the United States
to our companies, to our manufacturers.
Similarly,
we've had extraordinary burden
sharing with our allies and partners.
We provided
very significant assistance,
about $70 billion
over the last two years.
Our European friends
and partners beyond Europe,
more than $110 Billion for Ukraine.
So we have the
burden sharing that we need.
This is a time to
really step up
because if we don't,
we know what happens.
Putin will be able to move forward
with impunity.
And we we know he won't stop in Ukraine
and he may well end up going
after a narrow country
that would bring us in,
given our obligations to our NATO allies.
So here an ounce of prevention
is really worth £10 of cure.
Anthony, as you know,
CNN has has led the coverage
when it comes to the evidence
mounting in Israel of rapes
and sex crimes
committed by Hamas
against women and girls.
Maybe even against men on October 7th.
Why do you think the United Nations
and the international community
has been so slow
to condemn these atrocities?
I can't think of a real reason.
Well, let me just put it this way.
I've heard anti-Semitism hypothesized
as a reason why the U.N.
and the international community
might be so slow to acknowledge this.
What do you think,
Jake?
First, I really
applaud these ordinary work of CNN
in bringing this to light
and bringing this before the world.
You've performed a remarkable service
in doing that.
As to your question,
I don't have an answer.
I don't know why
countries, leaders,
international organizations
were so slow to focus on this,
to bring it to people's attention.
I'm glad it's finally happened.
The atrocities that we saw on October 7th
are almost beyond human description
or beyond our capacity to digest.
And we've talked about them before.
But the sexual violence
that we saw on October 7th
is beyond anything that
that I've seen either.
So thank you for doing that.
And look,
I don't have a good answer
to that question.
I think it's a question
that these organizations,
these countries need to ask themselves.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken,
thanks for joining us today.
Appreciate it.
Thanks, Jake.
Good to be with you.